agents/memory-bank/active.context.md, before:

---
last_reviewed: 2025-09-20
---

# Active Context

Current Focus

- Establish Memory Bank canonical files and default workflow. Align AGENTS.md to direct agents through these artifacts.

Next Steps

- Monitor agents template for further updates and capture intentional deviations inline.
- Use ADRs when template shifts require policy changes.

Open Decisions

- Define initial ADR index and numbering cadence as the system evolves.

Reflexion

- 2025-09-03 — Bootstrapped canonical Memory Bank, default workflow, and ADR-0001; tiering/retrieval policy gave immediate clarity; next: spin out specialized workflow variants as patterns surface.
- 2025-09-10 — Centralized logger and DynamoDB service tags in backend-core (ADR-0002) without disrupting existing layers; next: decouple schemas from AWS SDK types for a lighter core.
- 2025-09-11 — Rounded out user repository and schema projections, retired unsafe casts, enforced AppLayer provisioning, and mandated `npm run lint:fix`; next: add helpers to wrap `Effect.provide` and explore optimistic concurrency.
- 2025-09-11 — Introduced repo-wide Markdown formatting and consolidated workflows to three phases with ADR-0004; next: evaluate pre-commit automation for lint/format runs.
- 2025-09-13 — Required Given/When/Then acceptance criteria and Non-goals in planning with ADR-0005; next: consider lightweight linting to check for missing criteria.
- 2025-09-16 — Reconciled agents Markdown with upstream templates while flagging intentional deviations; next: annotate repo-specific policies inline for faster refresh cycles.
- 2025-09-18 — Added Vitest tooling, shared config, testing guidelines, and node-server testing plan plus helpers; next: capture boundary-specific utilities as they stabilize.
- 2025-09-20 — Iterated on node-server service coverage (plan/build/verify loops), tightened TypeScript typings, extended Dynamo/logger specs, closed Option.none gaps, and condensed Memory Bank reflexions/logs for faster retrieval; next: automate post-lint build checks and add focused suite scripts.
- 2025-09-20 — Planned middleware test coverage focusing on auth and rate limiting per testing guidelines; next: implement suites using fakes and deterministic helpers.
- 2025-09-20 — Implemented auth/rate-limit middleware specs with logger/dynamo fakes plus Effect-aware assertions, fixing missing log yields in both middlewares; next: validate lint/test runs and finalize memory updates.
- 2025-09-20 — Wrapped verify by running node-server lint/tests and memory validators; middleware suites green and Memory Bank stamped with current HEAD.
- 2025-09-20 — Added specs for CDK outputs, AppLayer, and lambda wiring to lock non-handler boundaries, updated the testing plan, and reran lint/tests; next: extend coverage into handler flows and integration slices.
- 2025-09-21 — Implemented handler tests for getUser and register using Effect-aware Express harness, mocked AppLayer with a UserRepo fake, and stubbed argon2/JWT/time; aligned assertions to current error-obfuscation behavior and noted gaps for future hardening.

Commit message:

docs: Update testing plan for node server

agents/memory-bank/active.context.md, after:

---
last_reviewed: 2025-09-21
---

# Active Context

Current Focus

- Establish Memory Bank canonical files and default workflow. Align AGENTS.md to direct agents through these artifacts.

Next Steps

- Monitor agents template for further updates and capture intentional deviations inline.
- Use ADRs when template shifts require policy changes.

Open Decisions

- Define initial ADR index and numbering cadence as the system evolves.

Reflexion

- 2025-09-03 — Bootstrapped canonical Memory Bank, default workflow, and ADR-0001; tiering/retrieval policy gave immediate clarity; next: spin out specialized workflow variants as patterns surface.
- 2025-09-10 — Centralized logger and DynamoDB service tags in backend-core (ADR-0002) without disrupting existing layers; next: decouple schemas from AWS SDK types for a lighter core.
- 2025-09-11 — Rounded out user repository and schema projections, retired unsafe casts, enforced AppLayer provisioning, and mandated `npm run lint:fix`; next: add helpers to wrap `Effect.provide` and explore optimistic concurrency.
- 2025-09-11 — Introduced repo-wide Markdown formatting and consolidated workflows to three phases with ADR-0004; next: evaluate pre-commit automation for lint/format runs.
- 2025-09-13 — Required Given/When/Then acceptance criteria and Non-goals in planning with ADR-0005; next: consider lightweight linting to check for missing criteria.
- 2025-09-16 — Reconciled agents Markdown with upstream templates while flagging intentional deviations; next: annotate repo-specific policies inline for faster refresh cycles.
- 2025-09-18 — Added Vitest tooling, shared config, testing guidelines, and node-server testing plan plus helpers; next: capture boundary-specific utilities as they stabilize.
- 2025-09-20 — Iterated on node-server service coverage (plan/build/verify loops), tightened TypeScript typings, extended Dynamo/logger specs, closed Option.none gaps, and condensed Memory Bank reflexions/logs for faster retrieval; next: automate post-lint build checks and add focused suite scripts.
- 2025-09-20 — Planned middleware test coverage focusing on auth and rate limiting per testing guidelines; next: implement suites using fakes and deterministic helpers.
- 2025-09-20 — Implemented auth/rate-limit middleware specs with logger/dynamo fakes plus Effect-aware assertions, fixing missing log yields in both middlewares; next: validate lint/test runs and finalize memory updates.
- 2025-09-20 — Wrapped verify by running node-server lint/tests and memory validators; middleware suites green and Memory Bank stamped with current HEAD.
- 2025-09-20 — Added specs for CDK outputs, AppLayer, and lambda wiring to lock non-handler boundaries, updated the testing plan, and reran lint/tests; next: extend coverage into handler flows and integration slices.
- 2025-09-21 — Implemented handler tests for getUser and register using Effect-aware Express harness, mocked AppLayer with a UserRepo fake, and stubbed argon2/JWT/time; aligned assertions to current error-obfuscation behavior and noted gaps for future hardening.
- 2025-09-21 — Plan: audited testing guidelines and node-server suites to frame the coverage review scope.
  Captured Given/When/Then criteria focused on surfacing actionable gaps tied to guideline mandates.
  Flagged integration coverage, middleware edge paths, and schema validation as top-risk areas.
- 2025-09-21 — Build: traced source modules against their specs to catalog missing branches and contracts.
  Logged missing Express slice, `req.ip` rate-limit guard, `UserRepo` ID success/error, `register` payload/JWT assertions, boot wiring, and schema coverage.
  Linked each finding to code locations and guideline references for quick follow-up.
- 2025-09-21 — Verify: consolidated the prioritized gap list and embedded it into the testing plan and logs.
  Refreshed Memory Bank metadata and prepared formatting/validation commands for completion.
  Next steps target implementing the supertest suite and backfilling the highlighted branches.
