agents/memory-bank/progress.log.md, before:

---
last_reviewed: 2025-09-21
---

# Progress Log

- 2025-09-03: Bootstrapped the Memory Bank, default workflow, and ADR-0001 to codify retrieval tiers.
- 2025-09-10: Moved logger/DynamoDB tags into backend-core under ADR-0002 while preserving node-server layering.
- 2025-09-11: Hardened user repo/schema flows, enforced AppLayer provisioning, and standardized lint/Markdown workflows (ADR-0003/0004).
- 2025-09-13: Required Given/When/Then planning with explicit Non-goals via ADR-0005 and refreshed Memory Bank metadata.
- 2025-09-16: Synced agents Markdown with upstream templates and validated format/lint/memory scripts.
- 2025-09-18: Shipped node-server Vitest setup, shared config presets, testing guidelines, and the initial testing plan.
- 2025-09-20: Extended node-server coverage across services, middleware, and infra wiring while iterating plan/build/verify loops and condensing Memory Bank artifacts.
- 2025-09-21: Adopted supertest integration slices plus repo/register/schema specs to close high-risk testing gaps and update tooling.
- 2025-10-08: Added `/heartbeat`, refreshed DAU/MAU design docs, provisioned the analytics stack, and wired EventBridge analytics with supporting tests.
- 2025-10-09: Hardened heartbeat analytics (partial failures, IAM scope), refreshed app READMEs, and queued the log-condensation pass.
- 2025-10-13: Completed plan phase for console-only logger refactor and queued build/test steps.
- 2025-10-13: Executed build phase to remove CloudWatch adapters and export console-backed logger layers.
- 2025-10-13: Ran targeted logger service tests and memory validation/drift checks to close verify phase.
- 2025-10-13: Realigned CDK output consumers/tests with `myapp-*` stack keys, restoring full workspace test runs.
- 2025-10-13: Removed application/security log group outputs and CloudWatch resources after migrating to console logging.
- 2025-10-13: Planned console-pass-through logger refactor, covering schema, implementation, tests, and memory tasks.
- 2025-10-13: Executed build by refactoring logger schema/service/tests to variadic unknown args with void effects, eliminating CloudWatch metadata.
- 2025-10-13: Verified console-forwarding logger via Vitest, updated Memory Bank metadata, and validated drift/paths.
- 2025-10-14: Synced backend-server-cdk docs with stack names and outputs, and hardened consumer typing against bootstrap artifacts.
- 2025-10-15: Planned stack-name single source across CDK consumers and node-client, flagging re-export and cycle risks.
- 2025-10-15: Built shared stack-name exports, updated schemas/stacks/client/tests, and verified via targeted Vitest run.
- 2025-10-20: Planned lint remediation across node-server tests, heartbeat handler, and CDK consumers; documented acceptance criteria and invariants before refactors.
- 2025-10-20: Executed lint fixes by adding scoped `max-lines-per-function` disables, restructuring heartbeat handler/CDK lambda helpers, tightening JSON parsing, and confirming lint passes.
- 2025-10-20: Verified lint remains clean post-fixes and completed memory validation plus drift checks after stamping metadata.
- 2025-10-20: Planned a lint rerun with refactor-first fixes, logging acceptance criteria and risks before entering build.
- 2025-10-20: Refactored node-server test suites to comply with `max-lines-per-function`, ran Prettier, and restored a clean `npm run lint` result.
- 2025-10-20: Verified lint remains clean, stamped Memory Bank metadata with HEAD, and ran `memory:validate` plus `memory:drift` to close the workflow.
- 2025-10-20: Planned the repository service workflow, capturing schema/infra/service steps, acceptance criteria, and testing strategy ahead of codifying the process.
- 2025-10-20: Drafted `agents/workflows/repository-service.workflow.md` to operationalize the repository service checklist across schemas, infra, services, and tests.
- 2025-10-20: Verified the repository service plan/workflow, formatted Markdown, updated Memory Bank metadata, and ran validation/drift scripts to confirm alignment with HEAD.
- 2025-10-20: Plan phase for user repository service — documented acceptance criteria, constraints, risks, and target tests/files before entering the build phase.
- 2025-10-20: Build phase for user repository service — validated create payloads, guarded identifier queries, refreshed heartbeat platform resolution, and expanded repository unit coverage.
- 2025-10-20: Verify phase for user repository service — ran `npm run lint` and `npm run test`, captured expected heartbeat stderr, and queued Memory Bank stamping plus validation scripts.
- 2025-10-20: Planned unsafe assertion audit script — documented AST-based detection, comment capture expectations, and the agent script target before implementation.
- 2025-10-20: Build phase for unsafe assertion audit script — implemented the TypeScript AST scanner, comment aggregation, and CLI options, then validated the help output.
- 2025-10-20: Verify phase for unsafe assertion audit script — ran the scanner, updated Memory Bank metadata, and completed memory validation plus drift checks.

Commit message:

feat: Implement include all flag for unsafe as cast script

agents/memory-bank/progress.log.md, after:

---
last_reviewed: 2025-09-21
---

# Progress Log

- 2025-09-03: Bootstrapped the Memory Bank, default workflow, and ADR-0001 to codify retrieval tiers.
- 2025-09-10: Moved logger/DynamoDB tags into backend-core under ADR-0002 while preserving node-server layering.
- 2025-09-11: Hardened user repo/schema flows, enforced AppLayer provisioning, and standardized lint/Markdown workflows (ADR-0003/0004).
- 2025-09-13: Required Given/When/Then planning with explicit Non-goals via ADR-0005 and refreshed Memory Bank metadata.
- 2025-09-16: Synced agents Markdown with upstream templates and validated format/lint/memory scripts.
- 2025-09-18: Shipped node-server Vitest setup, shared config presets, testing guidelines, and the initial testing plan.
- 2025-09-20: Extended node-server coverage across services, middleware, and infra wiring while iterating plan/build/verify loops and condensing Memory Bank artifacts.
- 2025-09-21: Adopted supertest integration slices plus repo/register/schema specs to close high-risk testing gaps and update tooling.
- 2025-10-08: Added `/heartbeat`, refreshed DAU/MAU design docs, provisioned the analytics stack, and wired EventBridge analytics with supporting tests.
- 2025-10-09: Hardened heartbeat analytics (partial failures, IAM scope), refreshed app READMEs, and queued the log-condensation pass.
- 2025-10-13: Completed plan phase for console-only logger refactor and queued build/test steps.
- 2025-10-13: Executed build phase to remove CloudWatch adapters and export console-backed logger layers.
- 2025-10-13: Ran targeted logger service tests and memory validation/drift checks to close verify phase.
- 2025-10-13: Realigned CDK output consumers/tests with `myapp-*` stack keys, restoring full workspace test runs.
- 2025-10-13: Removed application/security log group outputs and CloudWatch resources after migrating to console logging.
- 2025-10-13: Planned console-pass-through logger refactor, covering schema, implementation, tests, and memory tasks.
- 2025-10-13: Executed build by refactoring logger schema/service/tests to variadic unknown args with void effects, eliminating CloudWatch metadata.
- 2025-10-13: Verified console-forwarding logger via Vitest, updated Memory Bank metadata, and validated drift/paths.
- 2025-10-14: Synced backend-server-cdk docs with stack names and outputs, and hardened consumer typing against bootstrap artifacts.
- 2025-10-15: Planned stack-name single source across CDK consumers and node-client, flagging re-export and cycle risks.
- 2025-10-15: Built shared stack-name exports, updated schemas/stacks/client/tests, and verified via targeted Vitest run.
- 2025-10-20: Planned lint remediation across node-server tests, heartbeat handler, and CDK consumers; documented acceptance criteria and invariants before refactors.
- 2025-10-20: Executed lint fixes by adding scoped `max-lines-per-function` disables, restructuring heartbeat handler/CDK lambda helpers, tightening JSON parsing, and confirming lint passes.
- 2025-10-20: Verified lint remains clean post-fixes and completed memory validation plus drift checks after stamping metadata.
- 2025-10-20: Planned a lint rerun with refactor-first fixes, logging acceptance criteria and risks before entering build.
- 2025-10-20: Refactored node-server test suites to comply with `max-lines-per-function`, ran Prettier, and restored a clean `npm run lint` result.
- 2025-10-20: Verified lint remains clean, stamped Memory Bank metadata with HEAD, and ran `memory:validate` plus `memory:drift` to close the workflow.
- 2025-10-20: Planned the repository service workflow, capturing schema/infra/service steps, acceptance criteria, and testing strategy ahead of codifying the process.
- 2025-10-20: Drafted `agents/workflows/repository-service.workflow.md` to operationalize the repository service checklist across schemas, infra, services, and tests.
- 2025-10-20: Verified the repository service plan/workflow, formatted Markdown, updated Memory Bank metadata, and ran validation/drift scripts to confirm alignment with HEAD.
- 2025-10-20: Plan phase for user repository service — documented acceptance criteria, constraints, risks, and target tests/files before entering the build phase.
- 2025-10-20: Build phase for user repository service — validated create payloads, guarded identifier queries, refreshed heartbeat platform resolution, and expanded repository unit coverage.
- 2025-10-20: Verify phase for user repository service — ran `npm run lint` and `npm run test`, captured expected heartbeat stderr, and queued Memory Bank stamping plus validation scripts.
- 2025-10-20: Extended the unsafe assertion scanner with an `--include-all` option to emit the full set of `as` casts on demand while keeping existing heuristics for risk-focused runs.
- 2025-10-20: Planned unsafe assertion audit script — documented AST-based detection, comment capture expectations, and the agent script target before implementation.
- 2025-10-20: Build phase for unsafe assertion audit script — implemented the TypeScript AST scanner, comment aggregation, and CLI options, then validated the help output.
- 2025-10-20: Verify phase for unsafe assertion audit script — ran the scanner, updated Memory Bank metadata, and completed memory validation plus drift checks.
